WILLIAM BRANGHAM: It
was North Korea's own
version of fireworks
for the Fourth of July.
The communist state today fired
off a new missile that may
someday put the United States
within range of its weapons.
Nick Schifrin
begins our coverage.
NICK SCHIFRIN: On this July
4, North Korea declared
independence from what it called
American nuclear threats.
WOMAN (through translator):
The scientists and technicians
have successfully test-fired
the newly developed
intercontinental
ballistic missile.
NICK SCHIFRIN: In Pyongyang,
North Koreans celebrated what
appears to be its most advanced
test in its long pursuit
of a nuclear weapon.
The missile flew for about 40
minutes, almost straight up,
reaching an altitude of more
than 1,500 miles, and came
straight down 580 miles
away in the Sea of Japan.
On a flatter trajectory, it's
estimated the missile could
have traveled as far as 4,000
miles, past Anchorage, Alaska,
says scientist David Wright.
DAVID WRIGHT, Co-Director
of Global Security,
Union Of Concerned
Scientists: If they shoot
it essentially straight up in
the air, it goes very, very
high and comes down not very
far away.
If they then flatten it out a
little bit, it uses all that
speed to go a much longer
distance.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But the test
doesn't mean North Korea can
deliver a nuclear weapon.
It's not known whether
it's mastered required
miniaturization or
guidance and separation
systems that can take
years to develop.
DAVID WRIGHT: As you go to
longer and longer ranges, there
are just much higher stresses,
vibrations, the acceleration,
so there are a lot of forces
on this nuclear warhead.
We don't know if they have
actually done the final steps to
have a warhead that they could
actually put into one of these
long-range missiles and have
it work the way it's supposed
to.
NICK SCHIFRIN: As
president-elect, Donald
Trump vowed not to
let today's event ever
happen.
As president, he tried to push
China to pressure North Korea,
but he recently admitted that
failed.
Today, he addressed North Korean
leader Kim Jong-un, tweeting:
"Does this guy have anything
better to do with his life?
Perhaps China will put a heavy
move on North Korea and end
this nonsense once and for all."
But, today, China didn't
show willingness to
apply more pressure.
GENG SHUANG, Chinese Foreign
Ministry Spokesperson
(through translator):
We hope all sides can
remain calm and exercise
restraint, ease the tense
situation on the peninsula.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And, in Moscow,
Chinese and Russian Presidents
Xi Jinping and Vladimir
Putin jointly called for the
U.S. and North Korea to abandon
long-held positions in order
to calm the peninsula.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through translator):
We agreed to actively promote
parallel freezing of
nuclear missile activities
of North Korea and
large-scale joint military
drills of the U.S.
and South Korea.
NICK SCHIFRIN: North Korea has
exploited the July 4 holiday
before, in 2006 and 2009.
But this is their most
dramatic test, and their
momentum is increasing.
They have now launched more
missiles in the last three years
than in the last three decades.
DAVID WRIGHT: I don't see a
roadblock to them being able
to continue this process until
they got a missile that
really had the ability to
reach the lower 48 states.
I think it's just a
matter of time until
they reach that point.
NICK SCHIFRIN: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm Nick Schifrin.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We will look
at the implications of the North
Korean test right after the news
summary.